---
layout: post
title: Cenote
---

Deeper than the tallest peak on the Yucatan Peninsula,  
the waters of the Dos Ojos Cenote fill limestone fissures  
with impossibly clear water.  

People travel from around the world to dive here.  

It's an irresistible invitation for the holiday thrill seeker. And I don't resist it.  

Oxygen tanks stacked out front, I find Luis energetically chatting up a german couple  
in the dive shop. He has the confidence of a salesman who has been diving  
for decades and I immediately trust him to take me down.  

It's March. The end of the dry season in the Caribbean sub tropics. It's hot and dry.  
The roads seem to be little more than a thin layer of dust on bedrock.  
Some of the roadside palm trees collect a thicker coating.  

But there is water here. Just under our feet. In a quiet, unfamiliar world of stalagmites  
and deep, dark caverns.  

3000 PSI of Oxygen should be more than enough for the 50 minute circuit. We plunge in.  
The outside heat already a distant memory in the cool underground waters.  

Rays of light pierce the upper waters, illuminating like a beam of  
turquoise blue irradiance. The pot-marked brittle surface rock stand  
but little hope against erosion's millennial patience. And so, year after year,  
the water etches away at the roofs and walls of this ancient sea of shells.  

We follow a well swum route demarcated by a thin, nylon yellow string. I suppose I could follow  
that out of here if I get lost I wonder.  

We enter portions of the cavern black except for some distant turquoise flickers.  
Luis points out a large, well-preserved spiral fossil with his flash light.   

Unhurried flicks with our flipper keep us gliding along at a casual pace from chamber to chamber.  
At one point we slide through an opening only a meter or two high.  

Mostly, I find it a peaceful experience. The water is so clear I feel like I am floating in air.  
Gravity's rules don't apply to me down here. I can hold a deep breath and start to ascend,  
or exhale completely and start to sink. Letting my body find balance is an active meditation.  
I have not been diving in years, and yet, it feels indescribably natural.    

But then.  

A deep rumble. Felt more than heard.  
And I'm sure it's an earthquake. That's it. Well. Someone had to be in here when it came. I've  
had a good run. This is a good place to go.  

No. No. Don't be silly. It's probably normal. Keep on swimming. And so I do. And so it is.  

And I sigh out a big breath of bubbles and resume my awe of this planet.  
